README.md, before:

# terraform-shell-resource

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/matti/terraform-shell-resource.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/matti/terraform-shell-resource)

A workaround for https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/610 <-- please 👍, meanwhile:

This module runs a command as a `null_resource` and makes the stdout, stderr and exit status available as outputs (stored in triggers map). See an external data source version with more features at https://github.com/matti/terraform-shell-outputs (that runs on every apply, this one only runs once when the resource is created and if command is changed).

## Usage

```
module "files" {
  source  = "matti/resource/shell"
  command = "ls -l"
}

output "my_files" {
  value = module.files.stdout
}
```

```
...
Apply complete! Resources: 3 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

my_files = total 16
-rw-r--r--  1 mpa  staff   112 Feb  9 09:06 main.tf
-rw-r--r--  1 mpa  staff  1007 Feb  9 09:07 terraform.tfstate
```

## Full usage

```
module "first" {
  source = "matti/resource/shell"

  command = ">/tmp/first echo I was here first"
}

module "greeting" {
  source = "matti/resource/shell"

  # workaround for missing depends_on in modules
  depends = [
    module.first.id
  ]

  environment = {
    GREETING = "hello"
  }

  command              = "echo $GREETING world from $(pwd) where /tmp/first has content: $(cat /tmp/first)"
  command_when_destroy = "echo $GREETING and good bye from $(pwd)"

  # runs on every apply
  trigger = timestamp()

  working_dir = "/tmp"
}

output "greeting" {
  value = module.greeting.stdout
}
```

```
Apply complete! Resources: 6 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

greeting = hello world from /private/tmp where /tmp/first has content: I was here first
```

## Additional examples

See [tests](tests) and [examples](examples)

## Related issues:
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/610
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/17337
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/6830
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/17034
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/10878
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/8136
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/18197
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/17862

Commit message:

Default to Unix commands if Windows not specified; update documentation

README.md, after:

# terraform-shell-resource

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/matti/terraform-shell-resource.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/matti/terraform-shell-resource)

A workaround for https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/610 <-- please 👍, meanwhile:

This module runs a command as a `null_resource` and makes the stdout, stderr and exit status available as outputs (stored in triggers map). See an external data source version with more features at https://github.com/matti/terraform-shell-outputs (that runs on every apply, this one only runs once when the resource is created and if command is changed).

## Usage

```
module "files" {
  source  = "matti/resource/shell"
  command = "ls -l"
}

output "my_files" {
  value = module.files.stdout
}
```

```
...
Apply complete! Resources: 3 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

my_files = total 16
-rw-r--r--  1 mpa  staff   112 Feb  9 09:06 main.tf
-rw-r--r--  1 mpa  staff  1007 Feb  9 09:07 terraform.tfstate
```

## Full usage

```
module "first" {
  source = "matti/resource/shell"

  command = ">/tmp/first echo I was here first"
}

module "greeting" {
  source = "matti/resource/shell"

  # workaround for missing depends_on in modules
  depends = [
    module.first.id
  ]

  environment = {
    GREETING = "hello"
  }

  command              = "echo $GREETING world from $(pwd) where /tmp/first has content: $(cat /tmp/first)"
  command_when_destroy = "echo $GREETING and good bye from $(pwd)"

  # runs on every apply
  trigger = timestamp()

  working_dir = "/tmp"
}

output "greeting" {
  value = module.greeting.stdout
}
```

```
Apply complete! Resources: 6 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

greeting = hello world from /private/tmp where /tmp/first has content: I was here first
```

## Windows support
This module also supports being run on Windows machines (assuming they support Powershell). If the `command_windows` and/or `command_when_destroy_windows` inputs are specified, they will be used instead of `command`/`command_when_destroy` when Terraform is run on Windows. If they are not specified, the `command`/`command_when_destroy` commands will be run regardless of the operating system.

## Additional examples

See [tests](tests) and [examples](examples)

## Related issues:
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/610
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/17337
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/6830
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/17034
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/10878
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/8136
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/18197
 - https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/17862
